While TEFD seeks to integrate issues of diversity, equity, and inclusion in all programming, the items below focus primarily on these issues.

Programs with Faculty Funding


TIDE Ambassadors (Teaching for Inclusiveness, Diversity, & Equity)
Through this year-long fellowship program, faculty explore how they can enhance students’ learning and academic success across cultural, social, and learning differences by adopting a strength-based, inclusive, and equitable approach to teaching and learning grounded in the value of diversity. $1,500 stipend. Open to all full-time faculty.

More about TIDE Ambassadors
 TEFD Mutual Mentoring

Mutual Mentoring
TEFD encourages faculty to develop robust professional networks that include a variety of mentoring partners within and outside the UMass Amherst campus, and at a wide variety of career stages. TEFD refers to this approach as "Mutual Mentoring."

More about Mutual Mentoring
TEFD Services
Kirsten Helmer listening to a colleague

Diversity & Inclusive Teaching Consultation
Do you have questions related to issues of inclusive teaching, equity, and diversity? Please contact Dr. Kirsten Helmer directly to request an email or in-person consultation.

Explore consultation topics

Diversity Strategic Planning & Implementation
TEFD helps the leadership of colleges/schools and departments across the UMass Amherst campus to understand and discuss their goals and needs with respect to intercultural competency in teaching, and to develop recommendations, strategies, and plans of action with those units to address their teaching challenges and reach their goals for improving intercultural competency and effectiveness.

More about diversity strategic planning
 Department Coaching icon - Chemistry activity

Department Coaching and Facilitation
TEFD provides facilitation, coaching, and specialized workshops upon request of departments and collegues on campus.

More about Facilitation Possibilities
Programs

NEURODIVERSITY UNIVERSITY™2018 Symposium
Special Event - NEURODIVERSITY UNIVERSITY™2018 Symposium
Date:  Saturday - April 21, 2018Time:  9:30AM - 3:00PM  Detailed schedule see below Location:  Integrative Learning Center

Focusing on the theme of INTERSECTIONALITY AND SPECTRUM IDENTITIES, the 2018 Neurodiversity Symposium will feature an interdisciplinary faculty panel on conceptualizing autism, a keynote talk by best-selling author and advocate John Elder Robison, a Neurodiversity town hall, a film screening, and multiple workshops and resource-sharing opportunities for educators, students, parents, and members of the community.

The 2018 Symposium is co-sponsored by the Department of Communication, the Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences (Developmental Disabilities and Human Services Program), Boltwood Project: Civic Engagement and Service Learning, Institute for Teaching Excellence and Faculty Development (TEFD), the College of Education (Center for Student Success Research), and Five College Blended Learning.

Contact: ciecko@comm.umass.edu

Website: neurodiversity-university.com

Keynote Speaker: John Elder Robison is an New York Times best-selling author, advocate, and Aspergian. Website:  http://www.johnrobison.com

Schedule

10:00AM – 11:30AM Keynote Talk and Q & A: John Elder Robison – Location: Integrative Learning Center ILC N151

12:30PM – 1:30PM Breakout Sessions: Spectrum Identities, Student Success Panel, Expressive Arts Therapies – various room in the Integrative Learning Center

2:00PM – 3:00PM Town Hall Forum in N151 ILC (includes opportunity for sharing resources)

Of special interest to faculty: Panel “Succeeding in Higher Education – Stories from Neurodiverse Students”

During this session four neurodiverse-identifying students will share their stories of challenges and successes as students at UMass Amherst. Their stories offer insights for neurodiverse students on how to be academically successful and for faculty on how to support neurodiverse students to help them succeed.

Jeffery Durbin is a current 2nd-year PhD student in the Cognitive Division of the Psychological and Brain Sciences department. He identifies as a low-income, first-generation queer and neurodiverse student who is passionate about the success of marginalized students in academia. Catherine McEachern, graduating in 2019 with a B.S. in Psychology on the Pre-PA track with a specialization in Developmental Disabilities. She identifies with having a Learning Disability as well as Chronic Neurological Lyme Disease. Caroline Colorusso is an undergraduate senior majoring in Communication Disorders who has Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (AD/HD) and dyscalculia, a math-related learning disability. Kaitlin McCarthy is a rising senior majoring in Communications. She owns her own company called Your Advocate, which works to service students with learning disabilities.

.





 Participants in International Scholars Cafe

International Scholars Forum
This monthly forum brings international faculty, post-docs, and graduate students together with others who are interested in how to best support international students in their classes. Come to connect, exchange ideas, grapple with teaching challenges, and learn about inclusive teaching practices. Co-sponsored series with the Graduate School Office of Professional Development (OPD).

More about the forum
 Question from the audience in difficult conversations panel discussion

Diversity Lunch Talks
Come for lunch (provided by TEFD) and connect with and join your colleagues to explore issues related to diversity, inclusiveness, and equity in teaching. Offered monthly. Varying topics. Open to faculty, post-docs, and graduate students.

More about this lunch series
 engaged crowd at a diversity teaching workshop

Diversity Teaching Workshops
TEFD offers evidence-based workshops on a wide variety of topics that are open to all faculty, post-docs, and graduate students. In addition, TEFD works with various units on campus to produce discipline- and topic-specific programming.

More about diversity teaching workshops


Winter Institute for Intercultural Communication
In partnership with The International Communication Institute, TEFD co-hosts four days of workshops at the UMass Center at Springfield where you will engage on current topics in intercultural communication, putting theory into practice.  One- and three-day workshops on a variety of topics are available.

More about WIIC