CRLT offers programs and services designed to support graduate students and postdocs in all stages of their teaching careers from training for their first teaching experiences through preparation for the academic job market. CRLT's services are generally open to all graduate students and postdocs, whether or not they are teaching. For information about other programs on campus to support graduate students in all aspects of their work, visit the Rackham Graduate School website for current students.

Programs and Resources for New GSIs
These are some of our programs that are especially useful for beginning GSIs, though many of them will be helpful throughout your graduate career.

Campus-wide GSI Teaching Orientation
Engineering Orientation
ELI/CRLT Courses
GSI Guidebook
GSI Guidebook for Teaching Labs
Certificate programs:
U-M Graduate Teacher Certificate (GTC)
GTC+, certificate in teaching with digital media, co-sponsored by the Institute for the Humanities
Web Resources for GSIs
Seminars for Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Scholars
CRLT offers a regular schedule of workshops on various topics. See our events listings for upcoming offerings.


Preparing Future Faculty (PFF) Programs
Preparing Future Faculty Seminar (graduate student priority, postdoctoral scholars welcome to apply)
Preparing Future Faculty Web Resources
Postdoctoral Short-Course on College Teaching in Science and Engineering  (postdoctoral scholars only)
What's It Like... Panels
Certificate programs (graduate students only):
U-M Graduate Teacher Certificate (GTC)
GTC+, certificate in teaching with digital media, co-sponsored by the Institute for the Humanities
Consultations
CRLT provides individual, confidential consultations to U-M instructors on a range of topics related to teaching and learning. See our consultations menu for the range of options or to schedule a consultation.

Professional Opportunities
CRLT employs experienced GSIs to consult with graduate student instructors across campus about their teaching. Learn more at the links below.

Engineering Teaching Consultants Program
Graduate Student Instructional Consultants (GSICs)
Resources for GSMs
Consultations on Department GSI Training
Departmental GSI Development: A Handbook for Faculty and GSMs who Work with GSIs
Workshops for GSMs and Faculty Coordinators of GSI Training
Publications
