Making the Right Moves: A Practical Guide to Scientific Management for Postdocs and New Faculty, Second Edition
Based on workshops co-sponsored by the Burroughs Wellcome Fund and HHMI, this book is a collection of practical advice and experiences from seasoned biomedical investigators and includes chapters on laboratory leadership, getting funded, project management, and teaching and course design.

Note: HHMI is no longer accepting orders for hard copies of Making the Right Moves. This book is available for free as a downloadable PDF document below.

Download Making the Right Moves, second edition (full book)

Addendum: Writing a Letter of Recommendation

Addendum: How to be a Member of an R01 NIH Study Section

Download individual chapters

Front matter and Introduction (pp. i-4)
Copyright
Contents
Preface
Acknowledgments
Introduction
Chapter 1: Obtaining and Negotiating a Faculty Position (pp. 5-24)
The Job Search
The Job Application
The Job Interview
Negotiating Your Position
Resources
 Chapter 2: Understanding University Structure and Planning for Tenure (pp. 24-48)
Organization of a "Typical" University
Organization of a "Typical" Academic Health Center
People You Should Get to Know
Faculty Governing Bodies and Committees
Support Facilities and Services
Responsibilities Beyond the Laboratory
The Scientific Investigator and the Outside World
Planning for Promotion and Tenure
Resources
Chapter 3: Laboratory Leadership in Science (pp. 49-76)
Your Role as a Laboratory Leader
Creating Your Vision as a Leader
Developing Your Leadership Style
Building and Sustaining an Effective Team
Resources
Appendix 1: The Four Preferences That Make Up Your Personality Type
Appendix 2: Performance Review Form
Appendix 3: Performance Feedback Checklist for Managers
Chapter 4: Staffing Your Laboratory (pp. 77-96)
Getting Started
Recruiting Applicants
Screening Applicants
Interviewing Applicants
Evaluating Applicants
Making the Offer
Asking Staff to Leave
Resources
Appendix: Telephone Interview Outline
Chapter 5: Mentoring and Being Mentored (pp. 97-112)
What is Mentoring?
A Mentor's Responsibilities
Strategies for Effective Mentoring in Your Lab
Different Mentoring Needs
Mentoring Individuals Outside Your Lab
How to Get the Mentoring You Need
Gender and Culture Issues
Resources
Chapter 6: Time Management (pp. 113-124)
Strategies for Planning Your Activities
Managing Your Time Day to Day
Special Issues
Resources
Chapter 7: Project Management (pp. 125-142)
What is Project Management?
Getting Started
Tracking the Work and the Resources
Project Management Software
Controlling the Project
Resources
Appendix: Project Management—A Real-life Example
Chapter 8: Data Management and Laboratory Notebooks (pp. 143-152)
Day-to-Day Record Keeping: The Laboratory Notebook
Tracking and Storing Information
Finding the Right Data Management System for You
Resources
Chapter 9: Getting Funded (pp. 153-174)
Understanding the NIH Funding Process
Preparing a Strong Grant Application
A Bit About Budgets
Submitting Your Application
The National Science Foundation
Resources
Chapter 10: Getting Published and Increasing Your Visibility (pp. 175-186)
A Brief Overview of Scientific Publishing
Planning for Publication
Getting Your Paper Published
Increasing Your Visibility
Resources
Chapter 11: Understanding Technology Transfer (pp. 187-200)
University Technology Transfer Offices
The Technology Transfer Process
The Legal Terms and Agreements
Sponsorship and Consultation
Conflicts of Commitment and Interest
Resources
Chapter 12: Setting Up Collaborations (pp. 201-210)
The Varieties of Collaborations
Should You Collaborate
Setting Up a Collaboration
The Ingredients of a Successful Collaboration
Special Challenges for the Beginning Investigator
International Collaborations
When a Collaboration is Not Working
Resources
Chapter 13: Teaching and Course Design (pp. 211-246) (700KB)
Why Teach Well
Becoming an Effective Teacher
Planning to Teach a Course
The Principles of Active Learning
Active Learning at a Medical School
Assessing Student Learning
Course Design
Teaching Others to Teach
Professional Considerations
Resources
Appendix 1: Examples of Active Assessments for Large Lectures
Appendix 2: Bloom's Taxonomy
Index (pp. 247-255)
Chinese Translation

Download Making the Right Moves, second edition (Chinese translation)