Academic advising by Stanford faculty is a critical component of all graduate students’ education.

The nature of advising varies across disciplines and degrees as well as at different stages in a degree program, but certain shared values, goals, and responsibilities, outlined below, apply to all advising relationships.

Graduate programs are required to state explicitly their advising expectations and to follow other university policies. The documents below and these Advising Practices & Resources can guide departments and faculty in establishing expectations. Additional problem-solving resources can be found here.

Policies & Best Practices for Advising Relationships at Stanford (PDF)
Guidelines for Faculty-Student Advising at Stanford (PDF)
Advising vs. Mentoring
Faculty also serve in mentoring roles for students and postdocs, who themselves may act as mentors to others. Mentoring relationships often extend beyond academic topics and provide more "holistic" guidance on both professonal and personal topics. A student's advisor may also be a mentor, depending on the nature of the advising relationship. Students are encouraged to seek mentoring from other faculty, staff, postdocs and peers, and if they desire, to mentor others.

Explore Mentoring Resources to help you become a more effective mentor - or to seek out the mentoring you need.

Shared Values, Shared Goals & Shared Responsbilities
Shared Values
Educational excellence
Academic and research integrity
Spirit of exploration and collaboration
Respect and care for others
Professionalism in all aspects of advising relationships
Shared Goals
Academic progress and graduation of student or appointment completion for postdoctoral scholar
Mastery of the subject material
Advancement of knowledge and skills
Professional development and personal growth
Career success and satisfaction
Shared Responsibilities
Uphold and abide by department, School, and University policies
Maintain a respectful and inclusive learning environment
Abide by highest professional standards
Foster a culture of open and honest communication and collaboration
Use Stanford resources appropriately
Related Links
VPGE Programs