Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE)
Contact: Suzie Laurich-McIntyre / 412-268-7307
Location: 533 Warner Hall

The Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offers academically focused seminars and workshops that advise, empower and help retain all graduate students.

Programs include the Professional Development Seminar Series, the Doctoral Career Paths Seminars, Graduate Women's Gatherings, Inter-University Student of Color Dinner/Speaker Series, Summer Professional Development Workshops for Doctoral Students, Mentornet (electronic mentoring program for diversity in science and engineering), GradUate Small project Help (GuSH), and G.S.A. Graduate Student/Provost Conference Funding.

Career & Professional Development Center
Contact: 412-268-2064 / career@andrew.cmu.edu
Location: West Wing - 2nd Floor

The Career & Professional Development Center is staffed with Career Consultants who are assigned to serve students in individual colleges other than the Heinz College and Tepper School of Business (see below). Career Consultants can assist graduate students in writing resumes, vitae and cover letters, preparing for interviews and planning job search strategies for summer, part-time or professional employment.

Other highlights of value to graduate students include the on-campus interview program, career-related workshops, Career Consultant walk-in hours and TartanTRAK that contains job and internship positions, and off-campus part-time positions.

The Versatile PhD
Contact: 412-268-2064 / career@andrew.cmu.edu

Versatile PhD is an online resource designed to help humanities, social science and STEM PhDs identify, prepare for, and succeed in non-academic careers. CMU graduate students, faculty, alumni and others have free access to premium resources provided through the University's subscription to Versatile PhD.  The Virtual PhD is a collaborative resource offered by the Career and Professional Development Center and the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education

College-Specific Career Service Centers
Heinz College Students: Career Services
Career Services partners with Heinz College students to develop a personalized career plan and to build effective tools and resources for career search and development. It also provides support to Heinz alumni with continuing career resources and networking opportunities.

Tepper School of Business Students: Career Services
The Career Opportunities Center (COC) hopes to partner with current Tepper students and alumni to navigate through the career search process. There are a number of job search resources made available to you through the COC.

Information Networking Institute Students: Career Services
The Information Networking Institute (INI) Career Services strives to provide its students with discipline-specific career resources.

External Resources
The following are a number of external resources that are available to assist with professional development across disciplines.

National Links:
Inside Higher Education is the online source for news, opinion and jobs for all of higher education.
The Chronicle of Higher Education is the No. 1 source of news, information, and jobs for college and university faculty members and administrators.
Tomorrow’s Professor Mailing List is an email newsletter with cutting edge articles by experts in the educational field sponsored by the Stanford Center for Teaching and Learning.
Council of Graduate Schools (CGS) mission is to improve and advance graduate education in order to ensure the vitality of intellectual discovery.
National Postdoctoral Association is a professional association that provides a unique, national voice for postdoctoral scholars.
National Teaching and Learning Forum Newsletter
Association of American Universities
Association of American Colleges and Universities
The National Association of Graduate-Professional Students (NAGPS)
NextWave Finance is personal finance commentary.
Office of Research Integrity (ORI) promotes integrity in biomedical and behavioral research supported by the U.S. Public Health Service (PHS) at about 4,000 institutions worldwide.
Characteristics of Doctoral Scientists and Engineers in the United States: 2006: This is a National Science Foundation Statistical Reports on United States Science and a National Science Foundation Publications item.
Available Formats: HTML, Document Number: nsf09317
National Clearinghouse on Academic Worklife provides links to articles about and examples of faculty work including family-friendly policies.
The Versatile PhD is an online resource designed to help humanities, social science and STEM PhDs identify, prepare for, and succeed in non-academic careers.
Regional Links:
Pittsburgh Business Times newspaper with business news, top stories, exclusive reports, in-depth analysis, opinion and other popular features.
U.S. Small Business Administration Pittsburgh District Office
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Urban League of Greater Pittsburgh
The Western Pennsylvania Diversity Initiative promotes regional economic growth by providing resources to employers in the Pittsburgh region to attract, hire, and retain employees from a variety of diverse backgrounds and perspectives.