Intellectual Property
An Overview
read more about intellectual property
Experimental Quality
Experimental Quality
Scientific research, according to a recent book on experimental design, is the process of determining some property Y about some thing X, to a degree of accuracy sufficient for another person to confirm this property Y.

In other words: If it needs to be accurate enough for someone else to confirm it, it needs to be reproducible. Therefore, what distinguishes research from playful observation is reproducibility.

read more about experimental quality
Advancing Careers

Articles from the FOCUS newsletter
Advancing Careers is a collection of articles that were published in the Burroughs Wellcome Fund's FOCUS newsletter.

Topics include:

read more about advancing careers
Working with Institutional Review Boards

Protecting the rights and welfare of human subjects
If you intend to conduct research involving human subjects, before you can begin, you must obtain the approval of your institution's Institutional Review Board (IRB).  Most academic or governmental research entities have their own IRBs; there are also independent or commercial IRBs. Regardless, the IRB (sometimes known as an Independent Ethics Committee, or IEC) is the body charged with ensuring that all research conducted at the institution involving human subjects follows regulations and guidelines established by the federal government.

read more about working with institutional review boards
Thriving in an Era of Team Science
The fourth installment of the Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Development Guide series has been released. Thriving in an Era of Team Science.  It, like the others in the series, offers tips and advice from established investigators on how to survive and thrive in collaborative science.

read more about thriving in an era of team science
Moving On
The latest installment in BWF’s Career Development Guide series is out.  Moving On:  Managing Career Transitions offers practical advice on when to recognize it’s time to take the next step in advancing your career in research.

Science writer Karyn Hede interviewed researchers for their advice on setting a good foundation, developing research and teaching statements, networking, securing independent funding, and avoiding common mistakes.

read more about moving on
Staffing the Lab
Staffing the Lab:  Perspectives from Both Sides of the Bench answers the question of how to find the best laboratory to work in after a researcher has finished her doctoral program. It also takes the perspective of the principle investigator looking for a candidate to fill a position in her lab.

Staffing the Lab shares the advice and experience of established Burroughs Wellcome Fund awardees and associates.

read more about staffing the lab
Communicating Science: Giving Talks

Communicating Science:  Giving Talks is the first in a series career development guides published by the Burroughs Wellcome Fund.  Communicating Science provides advice from scientific speakers, tips on putting together talks, insights into how to use technology to your benefit, horror stories about speeches gone wrong, and pointers to inexpensive, approachable resources available in most communities to polish speaking skills and gain confidence.

Email Russ Campbell at news [at] bwfund.org for a free print copy.